this is a homeowners review of the
Napoleon 1402 fireplace insert there's a
lot of reviews online but none from the
homeowners perspective so if you're
looking to purchase this I thought I'd
give you some information and that might
help you decide whether this is a stove
for you and also some tips and tricks if
you own the stove so that you can save
yourself a little money and a little
headache first of all I'd like to point
out the two blowers on either side are
very effective at pulling the room air
through the stove and getting the heat
out of the stove I think they're 2 200
cubic feet per minute blowers and they
work excellent and as you can hear
they're on high now so that's what they
sound like on high and then I'm gonna
turn them down with the rheostat so you
can turn it all the way down so you can
barely hear it if you're watching TV or
you know you're talking you can barely
hear it on low so it's a great feature
next is the firebox
it's a 2.25 cubic foot firebox which is
considered medium medium to large
firebox they go up to usually around 3
or a little over and some bigger stoves
but this will hold an 18 inch log which
I kind of wish it would hold a bigger
log just because you know every once
while you get one too big and you have
to go out and cut it so it would be nice
if it was a little bit bigger but as you
can see the firebox is lined on the
inside okay and I've got a small fire
going in there because it's easier to
see in the video and one of the nice
features is the damper system this lever
actually controls two inputs into the
fire one is straight into the front
which feeds the bottom of the fire and
then the second one there's a tube that
runs to the back of the stove which
heats up the air and if you can see at
the top there's a reburn system that
blows air in the top and then that
reburn x' the gas is coming off the fire
which is
very effective so this is pretty much
the it's an excellent stove one feature
is if you're gonna open the door don't
just open the door because smoke will
come into the room one of the negatives
of the stoves it doesn't have a bypass
in the back that some of the other ones
like low P will have a bypass in the
back which you can bypass the reborn'
system and it'll the smoke will go
directly out of the back of the stove
and then it'll keep it you know from
letting smoking when you open the door
but you can open the door very slowly
and then let the draught change and then
very slowly open the door and then you
won't get smoke into the room and then
you can open the door very effectively
so that's one tip the other tip is in
the on the top there's these two baffles
that run along you can't really see them
but there's these two baffles that run
along the top of the stove and you know
putting wood in you you tear them up
pretty good if you're not careful
somebody told me that those baffles are
really supposed to be replaced with
brick which you know to replace the
baffles they're 80 bucks but to replace
it with brick it's like $15 at Menards
and that's the way it was designed but
they put the baffles up there so it'll
save them on shipping which I thought
was very interesting so it takes six
bricks on the top and it can probably
make your stove more efficient so I'm
gonna do that just as soon as I can get
the brick the other tip I suggest is
getting a stovetop
thermometer just like the one I'm
showing you can get up Menards anywhere
it shows a burn zone and over fire and
cria salt range which is really nice
when you're trying to learn how to
effectively control the fire for the
heat of your house and the outside
temperature so I hope this review is
helpful if you're looking to buy this
stove it's an excellent excellent stove
I highly recommend it